# Real-World BitCoin-Price Prediction Using Fbprphet
Cryptocurrency is a new sort of digital asset that has evolved as a result of advances in financial technology, and it has provided a significant research opportunity. There are many algorithms for price prediction for crypto currencies like LSTM and ARIMA. However, the downside is that LSTM-based RNNs are difficult to comprehend, and gaining intuition into their behavior is tough. In order to produce decent outcomes, rigorous hyperparameter adjustment is also essential. Furthermore, crypto currencies do not precisely adhere to past data, and patterns change fast, reducing the accuracy of predictions. Cryptocurrency price forecasting is difficult due to price volatility and dynamism. Because the data is dynamic and heavily influenced by various seasons, the ARIMA model is unable to handle seasonal data. In order to provide better price predictions for crypto traders, a new model is required. The objective of the study is to apply  Fbprophet model as the key model because it is superior in functionality as compared to LSTM and ARIMA additionally  removing the pitfalls generated in LSTM and ARIMA model while analyzing the cryptocurrency data. This study provides a methodology for predicting the future price of bitcoin that does not rely solely on past data due to seasonality in historical data. So, after fitting the seasonality and smoothing, the model is constructed that can be useful for real-world use cases. In case of crypto currencies where less historical data is available and it is hard to find pattern, proposed method can easily deal this type of problems. Overall difference between predicted and actual values is low as compared to other model even after seasonal data was available.

 There are a bunch of cryptocurrencies flowing in the digital market. In such cryptocurrencies Bitcoin is the most well-known, and it is impacted and influenced by external variables such as social sites, digital data, market analysis and so on. It was first introduced by Nakamoto in 2008 [1]. Peer-to-peer transactions are possible thanks to blockchain technology. Blockchain, the technology that underpins the Bitcoin cryptocurrency system, is extensively critical for assuring enhanced security and privacy across a variety of sectors, comprising the IoT [2]. It is basically a distributed digital record of transactions that spans the whole network of computer systems that make up the blockchain. The first component of the blockchain is a transaction, and the second is a block [3] [4]. The participant's activity is represented by the transaction, and the block is a data collection that stores the transaction as well as extra information like the right sequence and creation timestamp.
 The cryptocurrency market is currently the most attractive domain for financial speculation. Many individuals have gained a lot of money by speculating in the digital markets, and also marketing investment process which are filled with concealed pitfalls still endowing in bitcoins, ethereum etc. [1] [2]. The number of machine learning algorithms to use to reduce these risks, as well as a comprehensive set of possible market-predictive characteristics [3]. Due to the capacity to dynamically pick from a potentially enormous number of characteristics and understand complicated, high-dimensional correlations between features and targets, machine learning approaches have become more popular in this sector [4] [5]. Artificial Intelligence with machine learning techniques is attractive due to variances in forecasting capacity per coin [6]. Low-volatility cryptocurrencies are more predictable than high-volatility cryptocurrencies.
 Because of price fluctuations and instability, cryptocurrency prices are tough to predict. This vacuum in the field is filled by comparing several machine learning models for forecasting market movements of the most relevant cryptocurrency—bitcoin. Investing in Bitcoin is comparable to investing in stocks: none of the risk factors that can identify negotiations and changes in stock price related to cryptocurrencies. 
 In case of stocks , there are various parameters available like P/E value, ROE(return on equity) , ROCE , EBITDA , etc. to predict the prices of stocks but in case of crypto currencies there are only few parameters available , price movement is highly volatile and dynamic in nature , trends and pattern are complex and changes dynamically within a short period of time and there are multiple seasonality  with hourly , daily and weekly data . Most of trading algorithms requires a lot of parameter, they highly depends on historical data ,they cannot handle high volatility and strong multiple seasonality .Due to highly dynamic and volatile nature ,there might have missing observations and large outliers . There are various algorithms available for them like ARIMA and LSTM-based recurrent neural network but all these requires many parameter, LSTM based RNNs are difficult to interpret and it is challenging to gain intuition into their behavior, these algorithm are good for long term pattern but in case of crypto pattern and trends changes within few hours .  So, there is a need of algorithm which can handle all these problems and can even deal with holidays known in advance and missing observation and large outliers and seasonal effect cause by human behavior and can provide more accurate prediction
In this paper, the aims is to achieve the a model to predict closing price of Bitcoin along with Bitcoin Opening Price , Bitcoin Day High Price , Bitcoin Day Low Price , Bitcoin Day Volume and Market Capitalization of Bitcoin on particular Day by using deep leaning algorithms and various concepts of machine learning , which can find hidden patterns in data, combine them, and make considerably more accurate predictions . To achieve the aim the following task will be performed:
a)	Descriptive Analysis
b)	Exploratory Data Analysis Along with Data Pre-Processing
c)	Statistical Test to remove seasonality and make it stationary {using Ad fuller Test}
d)	Data Transformation
e)	Preparing the data, smoothing data and try to adjust seasonality. The concept like Differencing is often used.
f)	Building a Time-Series Model for which Fbprophet Library is being used.
g)	And at last, cross-validation is performed on model.

After applying all these steps, the generated model is:

1: That can perform all features of previous models.

2. That doesn’t require much prior knowledge or experience of forecasting time series data since it automatically finds seasonal trends beneath the data and offers a set of ‘easy to understand’ parameters.

3:  That can Deal with holidays known in advance, missing observations, and large outliers.

4: That can encounter means hourly, daily, or weekly observations with strong multiple seasonality’s.
